Aldnoah Installer Rules Guide

This guide explains how to use Conditions, Dependencies, and Conflicts when creating
.Aldnoah installers. You can leave them blank/empty if you want during mod installer creation, this guide is for those who do
want to use these optional features.

.Aldnoah installers are option-based. Each option can install one or more payload
files. Rules are attached to options, not to the entire installer.

Rules are checked when the user clicks Install Selected Payloads. If a selected
option has a rule problem, the installer blocks the install and explains what must
be fixed.


Basic Rule Format

Each line is one rule.

Example:

option: Ayane Body Base
mod: Base Body Framework.WO3M
Old Body Pack.WO3M

Blank lines and lines that say none, n/a, or na are ignored.

Rules can reference:

- An option name inside the same installer.
- An option ID inside the same installer.
- An enabled mod filename.
- An enabled mod display name.
- An enabled mod filename without the extension.

The safest rule targets are:

- option IDs or exact option names for rules inside the same installer.
- full mod filenames for rules involving already enabled mods.

Rule matching is exact after cleanup. Capitalization doesn't matter but vague
partial names should be avoided.


Readable Prefixes

These prefixes are accepted to make rules easier to read:

option:
selected:
mod:
enabled:
dependency:
depends:
requires:
require:
conflict:
file:
installer:

The prefix is removed before matching.

These two lines are treated as the same target:

mod: Base Body Framework.WO3M
Base Body Framework.WO3M

Using prefixes is recommended because it makes the installer's intent clearer to
users and other mod authors.


Negated Rules

You can require something to be absent by starting the rule with one of these:

!
not:
not 
without:
without 
missing:
disabled:
absent:

Example:

!Old Body Pack.WO3M

This means Old Body Pack.WO3M must not be enabled or selected.

Negated rules are best used in Conditions or Dependencies. They're advanced and
should usually be avoided in Conflicts because a negated Conflict means "conflict
when this thing is missing", which is rarely what users expect.


Conditions

Use Conditions when an option is only valid if another choice/state is true.

Conditions are best for installer internal logic.

Good uses:

- A texture variant requires a matching model option.
- A patch option requires another option selected in the same installer.
- A special option should only install if an older mod is not enabled.

Example:

Option:
Ayane Pink Texture

Conditions:
option: Ayane Body Base

Meaning:
Ayane Pink Texture can only be installed if Ayane Body Base is also selected.

Example:

Option:
Clean Install Variant

Conditions:
!Old Ayane Body Pack.WO3M

Meaning:
Clean Install Variant can only be installed if Old Ayane Body Pack.WO3M isn't enabled.


Dependencies

Use Dependencies when an option requires another mod or foundation to already be
present.

Dependencies are best for prerequisites.

Good uses:

- A compatibility patch requires another enabled mod.
- An add-on requires a base mod.
- A texture pack requires a matching model package.

Example:

Option:
Ayane Body Patch

Dependencies:
mod: Ayane Body Base.WO3M

Meaning:
Ayane Body Patch can only be installed if Ayane Body Base.WO3M is already enabled.

Example:

Option:
Diversity Compatibility Patch

Dependencies:
option: Diversity
mod: Teardrop Ayane.WO3M

Meaning:
This option requires the Diversity option selected in the same installer and
Teardrop Ayane.WO3M already enabled.

Conditions and Dependencies are enforced in a similar way but they should be used
for different meanings:

- Condition: "This option only makes sense when..."
- Dependency: "This option requires..."


Conflicts

Use Conflicts when an option mustn't be installed with another selected option or
enabled mod.

Good uses:

- Two body variants replace the same concept and should not both be chosen.
- A patch is incompatible with a known overhaul.
- Two installer options are alternatives and should not be combined.

Example:

Option:
Diversity Body

Conflicts:
option: Big Naturals Body
mod: Old Body Overhaul.WO3M

Meaning:
Diversity Body can't install if Big Naturals Body is selected and it can't
install if Old Body Overhaul.WO3M is enabled.

Important:
Authored Conflicts are different from automatic file collision warnings.

Authored Conflicts block install until the user changes selections or disables the
conflicting mod.

Automatic file collisions happen when payloads target the same container and IDX
entry. Those show warnings because users may intentionally overwrite or stack mods.


Recommended Authoring Style

Use clear stable option names.

Bad:
Patch

Better:
Ayane Diversity Texture Patch

Use full mod filenames for external mods.

Bad:
Ayane

Better:
Teardrop Ayane.WO3M

Use option IDs or exact option names for internal choices.

Example:
option: Diversity

Keep one rule per line.

Example:
option: Diversity
mod: Teardrop Ayane.WO3M

Avoid writing long sentence rules. The rule field is for targets, not explanations.
Put explanations in the option description.


Common Patterns

Option requires another option in the same installer.

Conditions:
option: Base Body

Option requires a mod already installed through the manager.

Dependencies:
mod: Base Body Framework.WO3M

Option can't be used with another option.

Conflicts:
option: Alternate Body Type

Option can't be used with an enabled mod.

Conflicts:
mod: Old Body Replacement.WO3M

Option is only valid if a mod is not enabled.

Conditions:
!Old Body Replacement.WO3M


Package Type

Wizard:
Use this for guided installers with pages, groups, selectable options, previews,
conditions, dependencies, conflicts, and multiple possible install plans.

Standard:
Use this for simple installers with one obvious install path and no meaningful
choices.

Standard packages don't show option pages. When the user installs a Standard
package AE installs every valid payload embedded in the package table.
The install window shows a package summary, payload table, live preview, collision
summary, and an Install Package button.

Since Standard packages install all payloads directly option level Conditions,
Dependencies, and Conflicts aren't part of the Standard install flow. Use Wizard
when installer rules need to control what can be selected or installed.

Use Standard when:

- The mod has no alternate variants.
- Every payload should always be installed together.
- The user should not need to make decisions.

Use Wizard when:

- The user should choose between variants.
- Some options are optional.
- Conditions, Dependencies, or Conflicts are important to the install flow.
- Different users may need different payload combinations.


Release Note For Users

Rules are checked before install. If the installer says a condition, dependency, or
conflict blocks the install make sure to review the selected option's rule status and either
change selections or enable/disable the required mod.

File collision warnings are separate. A collision warning means two mods touch the
same target entry. The manager warns about this but it allows the user to
continue if they intentionally want that load order behavior.
